I.	"the substitution process of individualizing observation for a generalizing view of human force in history" (FHTH, p. 69) emphasized how history needed to be more individualized when looking at different politics entities, nations, and cultures. To be able to understand history from a universal perspective, we need to understand history in individual perspectives. 

II.	Revolutions helped inspire history to encompass common people within it. Revolutions highlighted the people's efforts to bring forth change in their nation/realm. It opened the door for history to encompass different socio-economic backgrounds into their studies and provide more details into the history of a group of people or place (FHTH, p. 71).

III.	Architecture had become a means to not only the overall understanding of the past, but allowed architects to recreate history in modern times. The architecture from the past created the environments and sense of community that once would have surrounded certain buildings. Which created a new way of understanding people, their interactions, and society (FHTH, p. 75).

IV.	Ranke believed all histories were important and deserved to be studied individually. That they could be reconstructed and understood from the primary documents that came from the community. This would inspire ideas of nationalism or a national identity in places like Germany and France as they gravitated towards learning and understanding their nation's history (FHTH, p. 76).

V.	The sciences of society had also grown to reconstruct history by providing possibly reasoning behind why change was brought about. Historians had begun to connect past events with possible motivations/reasons behind them and use them to explain the effects they had in society.  (FHTH, p. 87). 

VI.	Thomas Gil discussed how Ranke applied a scientific methodology approach to history, thus professionalizing the field. He not only followed the methods he proposed but explained how he stayed true to them throughout his writings. His method included "a critical attitude toward historical sources; the insistence upon original documents; and the application of the philosophical method to the writing and teaching of historiography" (p. 384). This idea supports our discussion from February 4th, where several people discussed how historical writing did have similar approaches to how scientist conduct their experiments.

VII.	Ranke emphasized how "history has simply to show "what actually happened" (Gil, p. 384 and p. 387). He didn't want simple judgments of the past, he wanted to have individual understandings of different places and people without placing them into historical patterns. He wanted to understand individual histories, individually. 

VIII.	There was an importance stressed between national and universal histories. While both of them are separate viewpoints into history, it is hard to separate the two when trying to broadly understand history. Each focus has information that leads to the better understanding of humanity and our past. 
